Paper Writing (#222)
pfeinsper/drone-swarm-search: paper.md

---
title: 'DSSE: An environment for simulation of reinforcement learning-empowered drone swarm maritime search and rescue missions'
tags:
  - Python
  - PettingZoo
  - reinforcement learning
  - multi-agent
  - drone swarms
  - maritime search and rescue
  - shipwrecked people
authors:
  - name: Renato Laffranchi Falcão
    orcid: 0009-0001-5943-0481
    corresponding: true
    equal-contrib: true
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Jorás Custódio Campos de Oliveira
    orcid: 0000-0000-0000-0000
    equal-contrib: true
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Pedro Henrique Britto Aragão Andrade
    orcid: 0009-0000-0056-4322
    equal-contrib: true
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Ricardo Ribeiro Rodrigues
    orcid: 0009-0008-1237-3353
    equal-contrib: true
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Fabrício Jailson Barth
    orcid: 0000-0001-6263-121X
    equal-contrib: true
    affiliation: 1
  - name: José Fernando Basso Brancalion
    orcid: 0000-0000-0000-0000
    equal-contrib: true
    affiliation: 2
affiliations:
 - name: Insper, Brazil
   index: 1
 - name: Embraer, Brazil
   index: 2
date: 19 April 2024
bibliography: paper.bib

---

# Summary

> The goal of this project is to contribute to the research of solutions that employ reinforcement learning techniques to maritime search and rescue missions of shipwrecked people. The software equip researchers with a simulation of shipwrecked people casting away accordingly to maritime currents to produce an stochastic environment to be used to train and evaluate autonomous agents.

Reviewer: - faltou um 's na palavra 'equip' para fazer o plural
- shipwrecked people casting away -> 'casted away'
- accordingly to maritime -> 'according' 
- apos a palavra maritime, recomendo trocar pra "producing an stochastic..."

Author: Correcting:

```suggestion
The goal of this project is to contribute to the research of solutions that employ reinforcement learning techniques to maritime search and rescue missions of shipwrecked people. The software equip's researchers with a simulation of shipwrecked people casted away according to maritime currents to producing a stochastic environment to be used to train and evaluate autonomous agents.
```

# Statement of need

> Maritime navigation plays a crucial role across various domains, including leisure activities and commercial fishing. However, maritime transportation is particularly significant as it accounts for 80% to 90% of global trade [@allianz]. Therefore, maritime safety is essential, demanding significant enhancements in search and rescue (SAR) missions. It is imperative that SAR missions minimize the search area and maximize the chances of locating the search object.

Reviewer: sipa seja legal deixar claro porque melhorias em SAR no oceano, quantos casos de nalfragos terminam em morte?

Author: My suggestion:

```suggestion
Maritime navigation plays a crucial role across various domains, including leisure activities and commercial fishing. However, maritime transportation is particularly significant as it accounts for 80% to 90% of global trade [@allianz]. While maritime navigation is essential for global trade, it also poses significant safety risks, as evidenced by the World Health Organization's report [@who] of approximately 236,000 annual drowning deaths worldwide. Therefore, maritime safety is essential, demanding significant enhancements in search and rescue (SAR) missions. It is imperative that SAR missions minimize the search area and maximize the chances of locating the search object.
```

> To achieve this objective, traditional SAR operations used methods such as parallel sweep, expanding square, and sector searches [@iamsar]. But recent researches propose a different approach to this problem using reinforcement learning techniques over pre-determined path planning algorithms [@AI2021110098; @WU2024116403].

Reviewer: sugiro trocar 'methods' logo no comeco pra 'search patterns'

Reviewer: ou path planning algorithms

Author: My suggestion:

```suggestion
To achieve this objective, traditional SAR operations used path planning algorithms such as parallel sweep, expanding square, and sector searches [@iamsar]. But recent researches propose a different approach to this problem using reinforcement learning techniques over pre-determined search patterns [@AI2021110098; @WU2024116403].
```

> In order to contribute to researches on the effectiveness of integrating reinforcement learning techniques into SAR path planning, the `DSSE`, distributed as a Python package, was designed to provide a simulation environment using the PettingZoo interface with the purpose of training and evaluating single or multi-agent reinforcement learning algorithms.

Author: ```suggestion
In order to contribute to researches on the effectiveness of integrating reinforcement learning techniques into SAR path planning, the `DSSE`, distributed as a Python package, was designed to provide a training environment using the PettingZoo interface with the purpose of training and evaluating single or multi-agent reinforcement learning algorithms.
```

![Simulation environment showcasing the algorithm's execution.\label{fig:example}](docs/pics/dsse-example.png){ width=50% }

> The environment, as illustrated in \autoref{fig:example}, consists of a grid, a probability matrix, the drones and the person-in-water (PIW). The PIW movement is guided by, but not equal to, the movement of the probability matrix, which simulates the drift of sea currents acting upon the PIW [@WU2023113444]. The grid is divided in square cells that would represent quadrants of 130 meters of side in the real world. This relation with the real world is of extreme importance to create agents that can learn from realistic motion. As for the drones, they are the agents to be controlled by the reinforcement learning algorithms. They have nominal speeds defined by the user during the instantiation of the environment and is capable of moving orthogonally and diagonally, as well as searching the cell for the presence of the PIW.

Reviewer: acho muito legal adicionar um parágrafo que explica como fazemos a matriz de probabilidade

Author: Concordo que precisa ser alto nível, mas acho que podemos encaixar algo sobre a matriz de probabilidade. Para refazer este parágrafo, minha sugestão é a seguinte: 

```suggestion
The environment depicted in \autoref{fig:example} comprises a grid, a probability matrix, drones, and an arbitrary number of persons-in-water (PIW). The movement of the PIW is influenced by, but not identical to, the dynamics of the probability matrix, which models the drift of sea currents impacting the PIW [@WU2023113444]. Additionally, the probability matrix is defined using a two-dimensional Gaussian distribution. Over time, this distribution expands, effectively broadening the area where the PIW might be located. This simulated diffusion approximates the zone where drones are most likely to detect the PIW.

The grid is divided into square cells, each representing a quadrant with sides measuring 130 meters in the real world. This correlation with real-world dimensions is crucial for developing agents capable of learning from realistic motion patterns. The drones, which are controlled by reinforcement learning algorithms, serve as these agents. During the environment's instantiation, users define the drones' nominal speeds. These drones can move both orthogonally and diagonally across the grid, and they are equipped to search each cell for the presence of the PIW.
```

> `DSSE` was originally proposed as part of a Capstone project at Insper in a partnership with Embraer, in order to research the viabillity of exploring and rescuing shipwrecked people with reinforcement learning-empowered drone swarms [@dsse2023]. Since there is no available environment for such purpose and considering that the multi-agent reinforcement learning field of study is recent, it was decided to continue with the development of the project, aiming to enhance even further the realism of the simulation and to promote the research.

Author: ```suggestion
`DSSE` was originally proposed as part of a Capstone project at Insper in a partnership with Embraer, in order to research the viabillity of exploring and rescuing shipwrecked people with reinforcement learning-empowered drone swarms [@dsse2023]. Since there is no available environment for such purpose and considering that the multi-agent reinforcement learning field of study is recent, it was decided to continue with the development of the project, aiming to enhance even further the realism of the environment and to promote the research.
```
